AWS Fargate

A serverless compute engine for containers that works with both Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) and Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS).
With Fargate, no manual provisioning, patching, cluster capacity management, or any infrastructure management required.



Use Cases:

Launching containers without having to provision or manage EC2 instances.
If you want a managed service for container cluster management.

Configurations
Amazon ECS task definitions for Fargate require that you specify CPU and memory at the task level (task definition).
Amazon ECS task definitions for Fargate support the ulimits parameter to define the resource limits to set for a container.
Amazon ECS task definitions for Fargate support the awslogs, splunk, firelens, and fluentd log drivers for the log configuration.
When provisioned, each Fargate task receives the following storage:
10 GB of Docker layer storage
An additional 4 GB for volume mounts.
Task storage is ephemeral.
If you have a service with running tasks and want to update its platform version, you can update your service, specify a new platform version, and choose Force new deployment. Your tasks are redeployed with the latest platform version.
If your service is scaled up without updating the platform version, those tasks receive the platform version that was specified on the service’s current deployment.
Amazon ECS Exec is a way for customers to execute commands in a container running on Amazon EC2 instances or AWS Fargate. ECS Exec gives you interactive shell or single command access to a running container.



AWS Fargate Network
Amazon ECS task definitions for Fargate require that the network mode is set to awsvpc. The awsvpc network mode provides each task with its own elastic network interface.


AWS Fargate Compliance
PCI DSS Level 1, ISO 9001, ISO 27001, ISO 27017, ISO 27018, SOC 1, SOC 2, SOC 3, and HIPAA


AWS Fargate Pricing
You pay for the amount of vCPU and memory resources consumed by your containerized applications.
