Test5  
1.Amazon Transcribe is an automatic speech recognition (ASR) service that makes it easy to convert audio to text. One key feature of the service is called speaker identification.  
Amazon Athena is an interactive query service that makes it easy to analyze data in Amazon S3 using standard SQL. Athena is serverless.  
Amazon Athena is primarily designed for querying data stored in Amazon S3(primary focus).
  
If you have structured data stored in other AWS services like Amazon Redshift, Amazon RDS, or even on-premises data sources, you can use AWS Glue to ETL (extract, transform, load) that data into a data lake on S3. Once it's in S3, Athena can query it.  
  
3.S3 Standard-IA class is for data that is accessed less frequently but requires rapid access when needed.  

4.Trusted Advisor inspects your AWS environment and makes recommendations for saving money, improving system performance, or closing security gaps. It scans your AWS infrastructure and compares it to AWS Best practices in five categories (Cost Optimization, Performance, Security, Fault Tolerance, Service limits) and then provides recommendations.  

5.Amazon S3 supports the following destinations where it can publish events:
  
Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) topic  
Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) queue  
AWS Lambda  
Currently, the Standard SQS queue is only allowed as an Amazon S3 event notification destination, whereas the FIFO SQS queue is not allowed.  

 
6.There are certain limits you should keep in mind while using Amazon Kinesis Data Streams:
  
7.A Kinesis data stream stores records from 24 hours by default, up to 8760 hours (365 days).  
The maximum size of a data blob (the data payload before Base64-encoding) within one record is 1 megabyte (MB). Each shard can support up to 1000 PUT records per second.   
Kinesis is the right answer here, as by providing a partition key in your message, you can guarantee ordered messages.  
 In Amazon Kinesis Data Streams, if you provide the same partition key with multiple data records, those data records will go to the same shard. This ensures that data records with the same partition key are processed together in the order they were ingested within that shard.  
  
8.Instance store is ideal for the temporary storage of information that changes frequently, such as buffers, caches, scratch data, and other temporary content, or for data that is replicated across a fleet of instances, such as a load-balanced pool of web servers.  
  
9.Schema changes on relational databases are not straight forward and are hard to maintain if the schema requirements change often.  
 NoSQL databases or schemaless databases are chosen when the schema is expected to evolve rapidly, as they provide more flexibility in handling unstructured or semi-structured data without requiring strict schema changes.  
  
10.You can't have applications consuming data streams from Kinesis Data Firehose, that's the job of Kinesis Data Streams.
  Kinesis Data Streams is used when you need fine-grained control over stream processing and real-time data analysis within your applications. In contrast, Kinesis Data Firehose is used when you want to easily and reliably load streaming data into other AWS services without the need for custom stream processing applications.  
  
11. S3 Glacier Deep Archive is up to 75% less expensive than S3 Glacier and provides retrieval within 12 hours using the Standard retrieval speed. You may also reduce retrieval costs by selecting Bulk retrieval, which will return data within 48 hours.  
  
12.An Auto Scaling group can contain EC2 instances in one or more Availability Zones within the same region. However, Auto Scaling groups cannot span multiple Regions.You configure the size of your Auto Scaling group by setting the minimum, maximum, and desired capacity. The minimum and maximum capacity are required to create an Auto Scaling group, while the desired capacity is optional. If you do not define your desired capacity upfront, it defaults to your minimum capacity.  
It is not possible to modify a launch configuration once it is created. 
  
13.AWS Global Accelerator is like a magic tool. It gives you two special IP addresses that are super good at finding the right server no matter where it is in the world.So, no matter if your websites are hosted in different parts of the world (AWS Regions), users can always use these two special IP addresses to find the right website. This makes it easy to move websites between servers or add more websites without users having to remember new IP addresses.  

 If your endpoints are behind Elastic Load Balancers (ELBs), you can configure Global Accelerator to route traffic to the ELB DNS names rather than individual IP addresses. ELB endpoints are dynamic, and ELBs automatically manage the routing of traffic to healthy instances. This can reduce the need for frequent updates to Global Accelerator configurations when instances change.  
  
14.Metadata, which can be included with the object, is not encrypted while being stored on Amazon S3. Therefore, AWS recommends that customers not place sensitive information in Amazon S3 metadata.  

15. Amazon S3 offers three server-side encryption options: Server-Side Encryption with Customer-Provided Keys (SSE-C), Server-Side Encryption with AWS Key Management Service (SSE-KMS), and Server-Side Encryption with Amazon S3-Managed Keys (SSE-S3).  
  
With SSE-C, users manage encryption keys, but Amazon S3 handles the encryption and decryption process. SSE-KMS provides flexibility, allowing users to choose between AWS-managed keys for automatic key management or customer-managed keys for more control. It also offers advanced security features and auditing capabilities for key usage. In contrast, SSE-S3 is the simplest option where Amazon S3 automatically manages encryption keys, providing a hassle-free approach to encryption without key management responsibilities, but users can't specify their own keys or manage key policies.

16. Amazon S3 doesn't support HTTPS access for website endpoints. If you want to use HTTPS, you can use CloudFront to serve a static website hosted on Amazon S3.  

17.AWS Fargate is a serverless compute engine for containers that works with both Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) and Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS). Fargate is overkill for hosting a static single-page webpage.  
  
18.Depending on your Region, your Amazon S3 website endpoints follow one of these two formats.  
 http://bucket-name.s3-website.Region.amazonaws.com  
 http://bucket-name.s3-website-Region.amazonaws.com  
the correct format depends on the AWS Region where your S3 bucket is hosted.  

19. AWS WAF can be deployed on Amazon CloudFront, the Application Load Balancer (ALB), and Amazon API Gateway. It cannot be configured directly on an EC2 instance.  

20. Amazon Cognito lets you add user sign-up, sign-in, and access control to your web and mobile apps quickly and easily. Amazon Cognito scales to millions of users and supports sign-in with social identity providers, such as Facebook, Google, and Amazon, and enterprise identity providers via SAML 2.0.   

21. Amazon API Gateway is a fully managed service that makes it easy for developers to create, publish, maintain, monitor, and secure APIs at any scale. APIs act as the "front door" for applications to access data, business logic, or functionality from your backend services.  

22.Aurora  
In Single-AZ, failover options are limited, and automatic failover typically requires manual intervention or backup restoration.
In Multi-AZ, automatic failover within the same region is possible, and Aurora can promote an existing replica to a new primary instance.
In Multi-Region, automatic failover can occur within a region, but if a region experiences a widespread failure, cross-region failover usually requires manual intervention. Aurora Global Databases can be used to facilitate cross-region replication and failover.  

23. When you launch an instance, the root device volume contains the image used to boot the instance. You can choose between AMIs backed by Amazon EC2 instance store and AMIs backed by Amazon EBS.  
By default, the root volume for an AMI backed by Amazon EBS is deleted when the instance terminates. You can change the default behavior to ensure that the volume persists after the instance terminates. Non-root EBS volumes remain available even after you terminate an instance to which the volumes were attached.  

24.Redis has purpose-built commands for working with real-time geospatial data at scale. You can perform operations like finding the distance between two elements (for example people or places) and finding all elements within a given distance of a point.  
  
Use Amazon ElastiCache for Memcached - Both Redis and MemCached are in-memory, open-source data stores. Memcached, a high-performance distributed memory cache service, is designed for simplicity while Redis offers a rich set of features that make it effective for a wide range of use cases. Memcached does not offer support for geospatial data.  
Redis is a feature-rich, versatile, and highly configurable in-memory data store suitable for a wide range of use cases, including those requiring geospatial data handling. Memcached, on the other hand, is a simpler, high-performance caching system that excels at basic key-value caching but lacks the advanced features and data types found in Redis.   

25. AWS DataSync is an online "data transfer" service that simplifies, automates, and accelerates copying large amounts of data to and from AWS storage services over the internet or AWS Direct Connect.  
  
26.AWS Storage Gateway is a hybrid cloud storage service that gives you on-premises access to virtually unlimited cloud storage. The service provides three different types of gateways – Tape Gateway, File Gateway, and Volume Gateway – that seamlessly connect on-premises applications to cloud storage, caching data locally for low-latency access. File gateway offers SMB or NFS-based access to data in Amazon S3 with local caching.  
  
Choose AWS DMS when you need to migrate and replicate databases, especially for complex database migration scenarios involving relational and non-relational databases. Choose AWS DataSync when you need to transfer and synchronize files and data between on-premises storage and AWS storage services. 
  
If you need to transfer data from one storage service to another within AWS, you can use AWS DataSync. AWS DataSync is a service specifically designed for transferring data between different storage services, such as Amazon S3, Amazon EFS (Elastic File System), and FSx for Windows File Server.  

27.HTTP Header-Based Routing: This method involves inspecting the values of HTTP headers in incoming requests to determine how to route them. For example, you can route requests based on the User-Agent header to direct mobile users to a different backend service than desktop users. It's a flexible way to handle different types of clients or user agents.  
  
HTTP Method-Based Routing: Routing based on HTTP methods (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, etc.) allows you to direct requests to different backend services based on the type of operation being performed. For instance, you can send GET requests to one set of servers and POST requests to another.  
  
Query String Parameter-Based Routing: This method involves examining the query parameters in the URL of an incoming request. For instance, you might route requests to different endpoints based on a query parameter like ?version=1.0. It's often used in APIs to handle versioning or to direct requests to specific functionality.
  
Source IP Address CIDR-Based Routing: CIDR (Classless Inter-Domain Routing) allows you to specify ranges of IP addresses. You can route requests based on the source IP address or IP range from which the request originates. This is commonly used for security purposes, such as allowing or denying access to specific IP addresses or network segments.
  
Path-Based Routing: This method involves routing requests based on the path component of the URL. For example, you can direct requests for /api to one backend service and requests for /images to another. Path-based routing is typically associated with reverse proxies and API gateways.
  
Host-Based Routing: Host-based routing is based on the hostname or domain name used in the URL. It allows you to route requests to different backend services based on the domain name in the request. For example, you can route requests for api.example.com to one service and app.example.com to another. Host-based routing is commonly used in scenarios where multiple services share the same IP address.


28.Network Load Balancer is best suited for use-cases involving low latency and high throughput workloads that involve scaling to millions of requests per second. Network Load Balancer operates at the connection level (Layer 4), routing connections to targets - Amazon EC2 instances, microservices, and containers – within Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) based on IP protocol data.  

29.Using AWS Direct Connect, data that would have previously been transported over the internet is delivered through a private network connection between your on-premises data center and AWS. 
  
30.Lambda cannot directly handle RESTful API requests. You can invoke a Lambda function over HTTPS by defining a custom RESTful API using Amazon API Gateway. So, Fargate with Lambda as the front-facing service is a wrong combination, though both Fargate and Lambda are serverless.  
  
31. the main pricing parameter while using the Direct Connect connection is the Data Transfer Out (DTO) from AWS to the on-premises data center. DTO refers to the cumulative network traffic that is sent through AWS Direct Connect to destinations outside of AWS. This is charged per gigabyte (GB), and unlike capacity measurements, DTO refers to the amount of data transferred, not the speed.Data transfer pricing over Direct Connect is lower than data transfer pricing over the internet  

32. A VPC VPN Connection utilizes IPSec to establish encrypted network connectivity between your on-premises network and Amazon VPC over the Internet. IPsec is a protocol suite for securing IP communications by authenticating and encrypting each IP packet in a data stream.  

33.As AWS Direct Connect does not support encrypted network connectivity between an on-premises data center and AWS Cloud. As AWS Data Sync cannot be used to establish network connectivity between an on-premises data center and AWS Cloud.    

32. An S3 Glacier vault is a container for storing archives. When you create a vault, you specify a vault name and the AWS Region in which you want to create the vault. S3 Glacier Vault Lock allows you to easily deploy and enforce compliance controls for individual S3 Glacier vaults with a vault lock policy. You can specify controls such as “write once read many” (WORM) in a vault lock policy and lock the policy from future edits.

33.Using Amazon CloudWatch alarm actions, you can create alarms that automatically stop, terminate, reboot, or recover your EC2 instances. You can use the stop or terminate actions to help you save money when you no longer need an instance to be running. You can use the reboot and recover actions to automatically reboot those instances or recover them onto new hardware if a system impairment occurs.  
You can create an Amazon CloudWatch alarm that monitors an Amazon EC2 instance and automatically reboots the instance. The reboot alarm action is recommended for Instance Health Check failures (as opposed to the recover alarm action, which is suited for System Health Check failures).  
Using lambda to do it is overkill.  

34.Auto Scaling Group (ASG): Think of this as a group of workers (let's call them instances) that help run a computer program. The ASG makes sure that you always have the right number of workers. It does this by checking if each worker is healthy. It uses a special health check for this, like a doctor checking if someone is sick or not.  
Application Load Balancer (ALB): This is like a smart traffic cop that takes requests (like people asking for toys) and sends them to the workers (instances) to get things done. It also wants to make sure the workers are healthy and working well.

Now, here's where the problem can happen:

The ALB has its own way of checking if the workers (instances) are healthy. It sends little "Are you okay?" messages to the workers (health checks).  
  
The ASG also checks if the workers are healthy, but it uses a different method, like asking, "Can you do your job?"  
  
Sometimes, the ALB's health check messages don't get a response from a worker because the worker might be slow or busy, even though it's perfectly fine to work. So, the ALB thinks the worker is sick and stops sending requests to it.
  
But the ASG, using its different health check, thinks the worker is okay and doesn't replace it with a new worker.
  
So, the ALB stops giving tasks to a good worker, and you have a worker shortage. This can cause problems for your application because not enough work is getting done.  

35. Use WAF geo match statement listing the countries that you want to block
Use WAF IP set statement that specifies the IP addresses that you want to allow through  

36.Amazon EMR Elastic MapReduce is the industry-leading cloud big data platform for processing vast amounts of data using open source tools such as Apache Spark, Apache Hive, Apache HBase, Apache Flink, Apache Hudi, and Presto. Amazon EMR uses Hadoop, an open-source framework, to distribute your data and processing across a resizable cluster of Amazon EC2 instances.   
  
37. Some of the AWS tasks that only a root account user can do are as follows: change account name or root password or root email address, change AWS support plan, close AWS account, enable MFA on S3 bucket delete, create Cloudfront key pair, register for GovCloud. Even though the DevOps engineer is part of the admin group, he cannot configure an Amazon S3 bucket to enable MFA delete or close the company's AWS account.  

38.By default, cross-zone load balancing is enabled for Application Load Balancer and disabled for Network Load Balancer  

39.DocumentDB - Amazon DocumentDB is a fast, scalable, highly available, and fully managed document database service that supports MongoDB workloads. As a document database, Amazon DocumentDB makes it easy to store, query, and index JSON data. DocumentDB is not an in-memory database  

40.DAX does not support SQL query caching.SQL query caching refers to the process of storing the results of a database query in a cache memory or storage for later reuse.  

41.Both Amazon ElastiCache for Redis and ElastiCache for Memcached are HIPAA Eligible.  
 HIPAA is a U.S. federal law that establishes privacy and security standards for protecting the confidentiality and integrity of healthcare-related information, known as Protected Health Information (PHI).  

42.Amazon Redshift is a fully-managed petabyte-scale cloud-based data warehouse product designed for large scale data set storage and analysis.  
Using Amazon Redshift Spectrum, you can efficiently query and retrieve structured and semistructured data from files in Amazon S3 without having to load the data into Amazon Redshift tables.  
Amazon Redshift Spectrum resides on dedicated Amazon Redshift servers that are independent of your cluster. Redshift Spectrum pushes many compute-intensive tasks, such as predicate filtering and aggregation, down to the Redshift Spectrum layer. Thus, Redshift Spectrum queries use much less of your cluster's processing capacity than other queries.  

43. Direct Connect involves significant monetary investment and takes more than a month to set up, therefore it's not the correct fit for this use-case where just a one-time data transfer has to be done. Because of the high data volume for the given use-case, Site-to-Site VPN is not the correct choice.  
  
44. The data stored on the Snowball Edge device can be copied into the S3 bucket and later transitioned into AWS Glacier via a lifecycle policy. You can't directly copy data from Snowball Edge devices into AWS Glacier.  

45. AWS Security Hub gives you a comprehensive view of your high-priority security alerts and security posture across your AWS accounts. With Security Hub, you have a single place that aggregates, organizes, and prioritizes your security alerts, or findings, from multiple AWS services, such as Amazon GuardDuty, Amazon Inspector, Amazon Macie, AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Access Analyzer, and AWS Firewall Manager, as well as from AWS Partner solutions.  

46. AWS Firewall Manager is a security management service that allows you to centrally configure and manage firewall rules across your accounts and applications in AWS Organization. You cannot use Firewall Manager to prevent SQL injection and cross-site scripting attacks. 

47.The following URL paths can be used to get the instance meta data and user data from within the instance: http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/  
http://169.254.169.254/latest/user-data/  
Further, you can get the instance public IP via the URL - http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/public-ipv4  

48.Aurora: You can quickly create clones of an Aurora DB by using the database cloning feature. In addition, database cloning uses a copy-on-write protocol, in which data is copied only at the time the data changes, either on the source database or the clone database. Cloning is much faster than a manual snapshot of the DB cluster.  
You cannot clone databases across AWS regions. The clone databases must be created in the same region as the source databases. Currently, you are limited to 15 clones based on a copy, including clones based on other clones. After that, only copies can be created. However, each copy can also have up to 15 clones.

49.After a successful write of a new object or an overwrite of an existing object, any subsequent read request immediately receives the latest version of the object.  S3  

50.All DynamoDB tables are encrypted. There is no option to enable or disable encryption for new or existing tables. By default, all tables are encrypted under an AWS owned customer master key (CMK) in the DynamoDB service account. However, you can select an option to encrypt some or all of your tables under a customer-managed CMK or the AWS managed CMK for DynamoDB in your account.  
