Test5  
1.Amazon Transcribe is an automatic speech recognition (ASR) service that makes it easy to convert audio to text. One key feature of the service is called speaker identification.  

Amazon Athena is an interactive query service that makes it easy to analyze data in Amazon S3 using standard SQL. Athena is serverless.  

2.You cannot set up multiple consumers for Kinesis Data Firehose delivery streams as it can dump data in a single data repository at a time.  
  
  
3.S3 Standard-IA class is for data that is accessed less frequently but requires rapid access when needed.  

4.Trusted Advisor inspects your AWS environment and makes recommendations for saving money, improving system performance, or closing security gaps. It scans your AWS infrastructure and compares it to AWS Best practices in five categories (Cost Optimization, Performance, Security, Fault Tolerance, Service limits) and then provides recommendations.  

5.Amazon S3 supports the following destinations where it can publish events:
  
Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) topic  
Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) queue  
AWS Lambda  
Currently, the Standard SQS queue is only allowed as an Amazon S3 event notification destination, whereas the FIFO SQS queue is not allowed.  

 
6.There are certain limits you should keep in mind while using Amazon Kinesis Data Streams:
  
7.A Kinesis data stream stores records from 24 hours by default, up to 8760 hours (365 days).  
The maximum size of a data blob (the data payload before Base64-encoding) within one record is 1 megabyte (MB). Each shard can support up to 1000 PUT records per second.   
Kinesis is the right answer here, as by providing a partition key in your message, you can guarantee ordered messages.  
  
8.Instance store is ideal for the temporary storage of information that changes frequently, such as buffers, caches, scratch data, and other temporary content, or for data that is replicated across a fleet of instances, such as a load-balanced pool of web servers.  
  
9.Schema changes on relational databases are not straight forward and are hard to maintain if the schema requirements change often.  

10.You can't have applications consuming data streams from Kinesis Data Firehose, that's the job of Kinesis Data Streams.
  
11. S3 Glacier Deep Archive is up to 75% less expensive than S3 Glacier and provides retrieval within 12 hours using the Standard retrieval speed. You may also reduce retrieval costs by selecting Bulk retrieval, which will return data within 48 hours.  
  
12.An Auto Scaling group can contain EC2 instances in one or more Availability Zones within the same region. However, Auto Scaling groups cannot span multiple Regions.You configure the size of your Auto Scaling group by setting the minimum, maximum, and desired capacity. The minimum and maximum capacity are required to create an Auto Scaling group, while the desired capacity is optional. If you do not define your desired capacity upfront, it defaults to your minimum capacity.  
It is not possible to modify a launch configuration once it is created. 
  
13.AWS Global Accelerator is like a magic tool. It gives you two special IP addresses that are super good at finding the right server no matter where it is in the world.So, no matter if your websites are hosted in different parts of the world (AWS Regions), users can always use these two special IP addresses to find the right website. This makes it easy to move websites between servers or add more websites without users having to remember new IP addresses.  

14.
 
