3a

1. you couldn't enable hibernation for an Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) instance after it was launched. 
While the instance is in hibernation, you pay only for the EBS volumes and Elastic IP Addresses attached to it; there are no other hourly charges (just like any other stopped instance).

2.The Amazon S3 notification feature enables you to receive notifications when certain events happen in your bucket. To enable notifications, you must first add a notification configuration that identifies the events you want Amazon S3 to publish and the destinations where you want Amazon S3 to send the notifications. 
You store this configuration in the notification subresource that is associated with a bucket. Amazon S3 provides an API for you to manage this subresource.

Amazon S3 event notifications typically deliver events in seconds but can sometimes take a minute or longer. If two writes are made to a single non-versioned object at the same time, it is possible that only a single event notification will be sent. If you want to ensure that an event notification is sent for every successful write, you can enable versioning on your bucket. With versioning, every successful write will create a new version of your object and will also send an event notification.

Amazon S3 can publish notifications for the following events:

1. New object created events
2. Object removal events
3. Restore object events
4. Reduced Redundancy Storage (RRS) object lost events
5. Replication events

Amazon S3 supports the following destinations where it can publish events:
1. Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) topic
2. Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) queue
3. AWS Lambda
If your notification ends up writing to the bucket that triggers the notification, this could cause an execution loop. 
For example, if the bucket triggers a Lambda function each time an object is uploaded and the function uploads an object to the bucket, then the function indirectly triggers itself. 
To avoid this, use two buckets, or configure the trigger to only apply to a prefix used for incoming objects.


3.Route 53 health checking to configure active-active and active-passive failover configurations. 
You configure active-active failover using any routing policy (or combination of routing policies) other than failover, and you configure active-passive failover using the failover routing policy.


Active-Active Failover
Use this failover configuration when you want all of your resources to be available the majority of the time. When a resource becomes unavailable, Route 53 can detect that it's unhealthy and stop including it when responding to queries.
In active-active failover, all the records that have the same name, the same type (such as A or AAAA), and the same routing policy (such as weighted or latency) are active unless Route 53 considers them unhealthy. Route 53 can respond to a DNS query using any healthy record.

Active-Passive Failover
Use an active-passive failover configuration when you want a primary resource or group of resources to be available the majority of the time and you want a secondary resource or group of resources to be on standby in case all the primary resources become unavailable. When responding to queries, Route 53 includes only the healthy primary resources. If all the primary resources are unhealthy, Route 53 begins to include only the healthy secondary resources in response to DNS queries.

4. Amazon Aurora as the Amazon RDS database engine 
Configure RDS to export the automated snapshot automatically to Amazon S3 and create a lifecycle policy to delete the object after 90 days is incorrect because you can't export an automated snapshot automatically to Amazon S3. You must export the snapshot manually.

 you can't export an automated snapshot automatically to Amazon S3. You must export the snapshot manually.

AWS Backup is a centralized backup service that makes it easy and cost-effective for you to backup your application data across AWS services in the AWS Cloud, helping you meet your business and regulatory backup compliance requirements. AWS Backup makes protecting your AWS storage volumes, databases, and file systems simple by providing a central place where you can configure and audit the AWS resources you want to backup, automate backup scheduling, set retention policies, and monitor all recent backup and restore activity.
A backup plan is a policy expression that defines when and how you want to back up your AWS resources. You assign resources to backup plans, and AWS Backup then automatically backs up and retains backups for those resources according to the backup plan.


5.AWS Cost Explorer is a service provided by Amazon Web Services (AWS) that helps you visualize, understand, and analyze your AWS costs and usage. It provides a comprehensive set of tools and features to help you monitor and manage your AWS spending.

The primary purpose of AWS Cost Explorer is to help you gain insights into your AWS costs and usage patterns over time. It lets you view and analyze your historical spending data, forecast future costs, and identify cost-saving opportunities.
You can programmatically query your cost and usage data via the Cost Explorer API. You can query for aggregated data such as total monthly costs or total daily usage. You can also query for granular data, such as the number of daily write operations for DynamoDB database tables in your production environment.
By using the AWS Cost Explorer API, the company can programmatically access the usage cost-related data they need on specific services. The pagination feature allows for the efficient retrieval of large datasets.

Moreover, you don't have to use Amazon Forecast to forecast usage, as this capability is already available with the Cost Explorer API.

6. Amazon WorkDocs is commonly used to easily collaborate, share content, provide rich feedback, and collaboratively edit documents with other users. There is no direct way for you to integrate WorkDocs and an Amazon S3 bucket owned by a different AWS account. 

By default, an S3 object is owned by the account that uploaded the object. That's why granting the destination account the permissions to perform the cross-account copy makes sure that the destination owns the copied objects. You can also change the ownership of an object by changing its access control list (ACL) to bucket-owner-full-control.
However, object ACLs can be difficult to manage for multiple objects, so it's a best practice to grant programmatic cross-account permissions to the destination account. Object ownership is important for managing permissions using a bucket policy. For a bucket policy to apply to an object in the bucket, the object must be owned by the account that owns the bucket. You can also manage object permissions using the object's ACL. However, object ACLs can be difficult to manage for multiple objects, so it's best practice to use the bucket policy as a centralized method for setting permissions.

To be sure that a destination account owns an S3 object copied from another account, grant the destination account the permissions to perform the cross-account copy. Follow these steps to configure cross-account permissions to copy objects from a source bucket in Account A to a destination bucket in Account B:
- Attach a bucket policy to the source bucket in Account A.
- Attach an AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) policy to a user or role in Account B.
- Use the IAM user or role in Account B to perform the cross-account copy.


7.A key policy is a resource policy for an AWS KMS key. Key policies are the primary way to control access to KMS keys. Every KMS key must have exactly one key policy. The statements in the key policy determine who has permission to use the KMS key and how they can use it. You can also use IAM policies and grants to control access to the KMS key, but every KMS key must have a key policy.
Unless the key policy explicitly allows it, you cannot use IAM policies to allow access to a KMS key. Without permission from the key policy, IAM policies that allow permissions have no effect. (You can use an IAM policy to deny permission to a KMS key without permission from a key policy.) The default key policy enables IAM policies. To enable IAM policies in your key policy, add the policy statement described here.

All Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP file systems is encrypted at rest with keys managed using AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS). Data is automatically encrypted before being written to the file system and automatically decrypted as it is read. These processes are handled transparently by Amazon FSx, so you don't have to modify your applications. Amazon FSx uses an industry-standard AES-256 encryption algorithm to encrypt Amazon FSx data and metadata at rest.

One of the features that make AWS Glue especially useful is job bookmarking. Job bookmarking is a mechanism that allows AWS Glue to keep track of where a job is left off in case it gets interrupted or fails for any reason. This way, when the job is restarted, it can pick up from where it left off instead of starting from scratch.
Job bookmarking works by storing the state of a job's progress in a persistent data store separate from the job itself. AWS Glue can resume a job from where it left off, even if the job, environment, or underlying data have changed. Job bookmarking is especially useful when dealing with large datasets or long-running jobs, as it helps save time and resources by avoiding unnecessary processing.
In this scenario, the company can benefit from enabling job bookmarking for the ETL job to improve the data extraction and analysis efficiency. Job bookmarking keeps track of the last processed data, allowing succeeding jobs to run only to process new data. This eliminates the need to reprocess old data and significantly reduces processing time and resource requirements.

8.RDS Storage Auto Scaling automatically scales storage capacity in response to growing database workloads, with zero downtime.
Under-provisioning could result in application downtime, and over-provisioning could result in underutilized resources and higher costs. With RDS Storage Auto Scaling, you simply set your desired maximum storage limit, and Auto Scaling takes care of the rest.
RDS Storage Auto Scaling continuously monitors actual storage consumption, and scales capacity up automatically when actual utilization approaches provisioned storage capacity. Auto Scaling works with new and existing database instances. You can enable Auto Scaling with just a few clicks in the AWS Management Console. There is no additional cost for RDS Storage Auto Scaling. You pay only for the RDS resources needed to run your applications.


9.The Reserved Instance Marketplace is a platform that supports the sale of third-party and AWS customers' unused Standard Reserved Instances, which vary in terms of lengths and pricing options. For example, you may want to sell Reserved Instances after moving instances to a new AWS region, changing to a new instance type, ending projects before the term expiration, when your business needs change, or if you have unneeded capacity.
Take note that when a Reserved Instance expires, any instances that were covered by the Reserved Instance are billed at the on-demand price which costs significantly higher. Since the application is already decommissioned, there is no point of keeping the unused instances. It is also possible that there are associated Elastic IP addresses, which will incur charges if they are associated with stopped instances

10.https://wyag.thb.ltYou can associate the CreationPolicy attribute with a resource to prevent its status from reaching create complete until AWS CloudFormation receives a specified number of success signals or the timeout period is exceeded. To signal a resource, you can use the cfn-signal helper script or SignalResource API. AWS CloudFormation publishes valid signals to the stack events so that you track the number of signals sent.

The creation policy is invoked only when AWS CloudFormation creates the associated resource. Currently, the only AWS CloudFormation resources that support creation policies are AWS::AutoScaling::AutoScalingGroup, AWS::EC2::Instance, and AWS::CloudFormation::WaitCondition.

Use the CreationPolicy attribute when you want to wait on resource configuration actions before stack creation proceeds. For example, if you install and configure software applications on an EC2 instance, you might want those applications to be running before proceeding. In such cases, you can add a CreationPolicy attribute to the instance and then send a success signal to the instance after the applications are installed and configured.

the cfn-init helper script is not suitable to be used to signal another resource. You have to use cfn-signal instead. And although you can use the DependsOn attribute to ensure the creation of a specific resource follows another, it is still better to use the CreationPolicy attribute instead as it ensures that the applications are properly running before the stack creation proceeds.

11. the vCPU-based On-Demand Instance limit is set per region and not per Availability Zone. This can be increased after submitting a request form to AWS.

12. The AWS Systems Manager OpsCenter is just one of the capabilities of the AWS Systems manager, and it is not meant as a datastore of key value. This service is not recommended for storing encrypted application parameters.

Yes, that is correct. Secrets Manager and Parameter Store are both AWS services that can be used to store sensitive data, but they have different strengths and weaknesses.

Secrets Manager is designed for storing secrets, such as passwords, database credentials, and API keys. It encrypts secrets using AWS Key Management Service (KMS) and provides a number of features for managing secrets, such as automatic rotation and auditing. However, Secrets Manager is a paid service, and there is a cost associated with storing secrets.

Parameter Store is a free service that can be used to store application parameters, such as configuration settings and environment variables. It does not encrypt parameters by default, but you can encrypt them using KMS. Parameter Store is a good choice for storing application parameters that are not sensitive, but it is not as secure as Secrets Manager.

In general, you should use Secrets Manager for storing sensitive data and Parameter Store for storing non-sensitive data. However, there are some cases where you might want to use Parameter Store for sensitive data, such as when you need to store a large number of secrets and the cost of Secrets Manager is prohibitive.


13.Adding a Subject Alternative Name (SAN) for each additional domain to your certificate is incorrect because although using SAN is correct, you will still have to reauthenticate and reprovision your certificate every time you add a new domain. One of the requirements in the scenario is that you should not have to reauthenticate and reprovision your certificate hence, this solution is incorrect.

 Create a new CloudFront web distribution and configure it to serve HTTPS requests using dedicated IP addresses in order to associate your alternate domain names with a dedicated IP address in each CloudFront edge location is incorrect because although it is valid to use dedicated IP addresses to meet this requirement, this solution is not cost-effective. Remember that if you configure CloudFront to serve HTTPS requests using dedicated IP addresses, you incur an additional monthly charge. The charge begins when you associate your SSL/TLS certificate with your CloudFront distribution. You can just simply upload the certificates to the ALB and use SNI to handle multiple domains in a cost-effective manner.

Using a wildcard certificate to handle multiple sub-domains and different domains is incorrect because a wildcard certificate can only handle multiple sub-domains but not different domains.




